# sleo2705-tracker

## OnePot Recipe App

The Recipe App is a web application that allows users to view and manage their favorite recipes. Users can add new recipes, view recipe details, and delete existing and added recipes.

- please refer to the actual files for comments on the code 

## Features

- View Recipe Cards: The app displays recipe cards showing the name, category, and a "View Recipe" button for each recipe.
- View Recipe Details: Clicking on the "View Recipe" button shows the details of the selected recipe, including the name, category, link, preparation time, image, rating, and comments.
- Add New Recipe: Users can add a new recipe by filling out a form with the recipe details, such as name, category, link, preparation time, image URL, rating, and comments.
- Delete Recipe: Users can delete a recipe from the app, which removes it from the list of recipes.

## Iterations

- The overall look and vibe of the website is the same from the web app design 
- Structure: Instead of having the form and recipe details as a pop up when you click on the '+' button, I made it at the bottom of the page
    - This did not affect the functionality of the web app
    - The reason I did this was because of the lack of skills to make a pop up form. I also thought that having everything static on a page further links to the design brief of having a single page architecture

- Things I added: compared to the first web app design iteration, I added some buttons to make the call to action more obvious
    - "View Recipe": I added the 'view recipe' button on the cards so that users are more aware that they can expand the cards and view more details such as the link and comments to the recipe.
    - "Delete": I also added the delete button right next to the 'view recipe' button, so that users can delete the recipe right away without expanding the card first

## Difficulties
I ran into a number of difficulties while coding this recipe web app. I try to resolve them by researching and using various online tools, but it doesn't seem to help. I tried my best resolving them, but it seems that the lack of coding skills is the issue. Here are the things that I had difficulties with:
- *Star Ratings*: I managed to find the code to include the stars as a indicator for the users rating from 1-5. I also tried putting in the code so that when users input their rating of 1, only 1 star appears. Though, it doesn't seem to work when I test and put in different ratings. It always just results in a 5 star rating no matter the number I put under the ratings input.
- *Image Upload*: Initially, I wanted users to upload their own images of the recipe that they tried out. I tried researching on how to include that input field, but got too confused. Since I still wanted an image in the cards, I provided users the option to upload the link to the image of the recipe that they used instead.
- *Local Storage*: I included the code for local storage on my js script file, but I don't think it seems to work and I'm not sure why. I looked it up online, and it seems to be correct (I think), so I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong.
- *Automatic date and time*: In my data model, I mentioned that the current date and time would be autogenerated and displayed in the expanded recipe card details. I managed to code the date and time in and included them in the array as well in my script.js file. Though, it doesn't appear on the recipe details container. 

## Things I would expand on if I had more time
- In general, I would spend more time on fixing up and figuring out the problems I had mentioned with my difficulties above.
- The recipe details container: If I had more time, I would spend it on making sure that the recipe details container looks more polished and design it better. Now, the container looks very plain and has a lot of empty space. 
- I might also want to add an auto sorting feature, which sorts the recipes based on the time the recipe was added. (from past to recent)

## Resources I used
- To help me figure out some code and rehash what I have learned before, I used various coding resources. These include:
 - stack overflow: https://stackoverflow.com/
 - github community: https://github.com/community
 - w3schools: https://www.w3schools.com/java/default.asp  
 - The Coding Train: https://www.youtube.com/@TheCodingTrain
 - Reddit


## Usage

1. Clone the repository: 
   git clone https://github.com/sleo2705/sleo2705-tracker/tree/main

